
Readme
---

Sai Teja Sunku
https://a1-saitejasunku.glitch.me/

This project shows a simple HTML, CSS, JS webpage to introduce myself.

## Technical Achievements
- **Styled page with CSS**: Added rules for the p, li, h, table, footer, and button tags
  - I have created a separate CSS file called index.css to add all the stylings and linked with html using the link tag
  - I have created class names for the html tags for which I wanted to add CSS properties
    1. background - to add background color for the page, buttons, footer, and table headers
    2. font-family - to use the imported font for the text from Google Fonts
    3. margin - to align items with the page like the footer, buttons, and table 
    4. padding - to add spacing for different elements like buttons, table, and footer
    5. text-align - to align a few specific texts to the center of the page like the text in footer, welcome, buttons, and table
    6. width - to maximize the background to 100% for footer, used for my achievements button
    7. font-weight - to make texts bold in the footer
    8. text-decoration - to underline sub-headings in the h and p tags
    9. color - to change the color of the text like the welcome text
    10. border-radius - to curve the radius of buttons included in the footer by 50px, to curve edges of my achievements button
    11. cursor - set to pointer when hovered over the buttons
    12. border and border-collapse - to form a table, to remove border for my achievements button 
    13. !important - to give priority for few background colors in table columns
  - **CSS Properties Specific to My Achievements Button**:
  
    14. position - set to relative and absolute to transition the text up when hovered
    15. overflow - set to hidden to attain perfect transition of text
    16. height - to set max height for the button and transition of text
    17. display, align-items, justify-content, flex-direction - to display content and button accurately
    18. transition, transform - to transform 0.5s of motion and zoom-in effect
    19. font-size - to set size of text
    20. left, bottom - to cover the transition background completely over the button
- **Simple JavaScript Animation**: Added JavaScript animation to the page for better and dynamic functionality
  - I have created a separate JS file called index.js and linked with html using script tag
    1. Added alert that pops when the page loads
    2. Added text blinking by using setInterval() function and used document.getElementById() to get id of h2 text and keep hiding and displaying the text
    3. Added functions to change color of the body on button click using style.backgroundColor function and document.querySelector to get the html tag on which the color should change.
- **Semantic HTML tags**: Used various html tags to build the page.
  1. footer - to add a footer in the bottom of the page with copyright text
  2. button - to change the color of the body using onclick attribute, for showing personal achievements
  3. div - to separate the buttons in the footer, to create personal achievements button and transition of text
  4. br - to write content about me in different lines 
  5. ol, ul, li - to create ordered and unordered list of experiences, for listing personal achievements
  6. table, thead, tbody, th, tr, td - to create a table and place experiences for different categories like school, projects, and clubs
  7. p - to add information about me
  8. h - to create different sizes of headings
  9. link, script - to link CSS and JS files with HTML
- **Challenges**:
  - Creating the "my achievements" button was challenging as it involved multiple CSS styling rules to implement. I had to write multiple HTML elements/containers to create different CSS properties so that the background color transitions up with the text only when hovered over the button. Had to use transition, transform, multiple alignments to make it work.
  - Changing background color of the page on button click was challenging as I had to use button attributes, fetch the id in javascript and use javascript DOM functions to create this functionality.
  - Creating the styling for the table was challenging as I had to identify for which table property I had to collapse borders and add borders and also figure out other properties to add to form a perfect table.
  - Creating the blinking welcome text in javascript was challenging as it involved writing conditional logic to hide and show the text and simultaneously use inbuilt JS functions.

## Design Achievements
- **Used the Color Wheel from Adobe**: I used colors from the color palette generated by setting the color wheel using the Adobe tool.
  - I set the color wheel to get mixed shades of blue and green and the following were the CSS color codes generated: 
    - #61F2A7 - for table column 1
    - #61DCF2 - for footer
    - #61F2D8 - for table column 2
    - #61F274 - for change background button and background page color
    - #61AEF2 - for welcome text and my achievements button
    - #00F5C8 - for table column 3
  - I added these colors using the CSS property: background for various aspects such as the table, footer, welcome text, and buttons. 
  - The color wheel and palette images are attached in the repository 
- **Used the Nunito Sans Font from Google Fonts**: I used Nunito Sans as the font for the entire body/content in my site.
  - I imported the font into CSS file using @import url and applied the font-family property to the entire body tag.
- **Challenges**:
  - Figuring out how to use and incorporate Google Fonts in my webpage was challenging. 
